# Chat-NodeJS
This program creates a simple chat program between multiples users. You can install all modules easily by typing in `npm install` or install seperate packages using the following commands. It uses [express](http://expressjs.com/en/index.html) -- `npm install --save express@4.10.2` -- to help initialize the server app and prepare itself. It also uses [socket.io](http://socket.io/) -- `npm install --save socket.io` -- to help establish connections between users and the server. This app uses a custom version of bootstrap theme known as [Sandstone](https://bootswatch.com/sandstone/).

## Server `(server.js)`
The server runs by executing the command `node server.js`. The server will listen on port 2500, and can be changed to a different port by changing the number 2500 in the `port_number` variable to the desired port number -- `var port_number = 2500`.

Initially the server will send the index file to the user and then proceed on listening on the port specified. Then the server waits for a user to connect and then proceed entering the scope of -- `io.on('connection', function(socket) {`. There another event is invoked initially by the client containing information of the client through the `connection name` event. Second, if the user types anything and wants to send the information, then the second event `chat message` is activated. This event broadcasts the message to all the users connected to the server. Finally, if a user disconnects from the server, then the client sends the `disconnect` event. This event deletes the users from the array that stores user names. After the server deletes the users, then send an updated table of names to the clients so that they can update their Connected Users list.

## Client `(index.html)`
This file contains html content that is displayed to the user. Within that there is a JavaScript script that is invoked whenever the user needs to talk with the server using `socket.io`. First ask the user for a user name; no authentication or checking is completed on the name. That name is then sent to the server using the `connection name` event. If the user sends a message, then the `chat message` event is activated sending the name and message to the server. Finally, the event handler `users update` which updates the Connected Users lists at the top of the webpage.